# lux(8) -- a Linux kernel updater

## SYNOPSIS

`lux` [-dfiquvh] [<directory>]

## DESCRIPTION

`lux` updates a kernel source tree located in <directory> to the latest
version, or to a specific target in `lux.conf`, then installs it.

It utilizes git(1) for updating, and in addition, uses its shallow clone
feature to reduce the amount of data that is fetched when updating, making
it as fast, if not faster than using a tarball for updating.

## OPTIONS

- `-d`:
    Debug mode. This causes `lux` to be a bit noisey, and just tells you
    about assumptions it makes, and what it's doing when it would normally
    suppress git(1)'s output, or otherwise be quiet.

    If you're hitting really strange issues, or are reporting a bug,
    you might wish to run `lux` with `bash -x` instead.

- `-f`:
    Get a fresh tree from the remote specified in `lux.conf`. This is
    equivalent to if you cloned a tree into the <directory> yourself.

    If <directory> does not exist, or does not contain a git(1) repository
    that looks like a Linux kernel tree, it will remove the directory and
    clone a new tree to it.

- `-i`:
    Only install the kernel, don't do anything related to updating the
    kernel's tree.

- `-q`:
    Quiet, or non-interactive mode. This mode doesn't ask any questions,
    and causes `lux` to use the default answers, which try to be sane as
    possible.

    See [QUIET MODE][] for more details.

- `-u`:
    Only update the kernel source, don't do anything related to upgrading
    the installed version of the kernel.

- `-v`:
    Print current `lux` version, and the copyright/license.

- `-h`:
    Print a brief usage message.

## QUIET MODE

`lux` makes great effort to make it easy to update the kernel when it's
already configured how you like it, and as such `-q` makes a bit of
assumptions based on some rules of the system it's running on.

- Cloning a fresh copy of the kernel source, if `-f` is specified.
- Upgrading the kernel, if the target version is not being ran.
- Configure the kernel, using existing configuration, falling back to the
  running system's configuration, and then default if that can't be used
- Compile.
- Install, using `make install`.

  As of writing, the kernel's Makefile calls to installkernel(8), which is
  usually included with systems that have debianutils or systemd
  installed. If kernel-install(8) is found, lux will default to using it.

## FILES

- /etc/lux.conf:
    The default `lux.conf` location. See lux.conf(5) for details on that.

- /usr/src/linux:
    The default location for a kernel tree.

## BUGS

Hopefully none! In the extremely unlikely case that your wonderful author
is wrong though, send them to <https://github.com/somasis/lux/issues>.

## SEE ALSO

lux.conf(5), make(1), bash(1)

## COPYRIGHT

Written by Kylie McClain <somasis@exherbo.org>

<https://github.com/somasis/lux>

## LICENSE

Licensed under the ISC license.

Copyright (c) 2014-2016 Kylie McClain <<somasis@exherbo.org>>

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
